Well, thank you, and good morning.
Welcome to session 301,
Introducing Passbook, Part 1.
My name's Glen.
I'm an iOS engineer,
and I'll be joined on the stage in a
couple of minutes by my colleague Ken.
Ken and I got to work
together on Passbook,
and we're just really excited
to introduce it to you today and
tell you a little bit about it.
So Passbook is a new
application in iOS 6.
It's available for iPhone and iPod Touch.
And it's all about the extra stuff
that you might have in your pocket.
Now,
a lot of third-party applications have
been taking advantage of barcodes,
and they've been doing
this in a variety of ways.
But the most common use seems to
be to allow the user to take some
sort of action in the real world.
So maybe that's checking
in for your flight.
Maybe it's buying your
morning cup of coffee,
checking in for your movie
at the movie theater.
And this is great.
So customers love this.
Developers love it.
Merchants really like it.
And we think it's really cool.
But there hasn't really been any support
on iOS for this kind of thing so far.
It's just kind of happened very,
very naturally.
So that changes with iOS 6 and
the introduction of Passbook.
Passbook is a single location on
your device where these passes can be
gathered and accessed very easily in a
fun and useful and easy way by the user.
And this is what the app looks
like when it's full of passes.
It's really cool.
It's got this nice, clean UI.
And you tap on one of these,
and all the passes kind
of flop out of the way,
and the one that you're interested
in is the one that's shown on screen.
Now,
we've taken care of a lot of the gotchas
that come along with using these passes.
So, I'm sure you've maybe been ready
to use one of these before,
and you sort of gesture
down to the scanner,
and it's in a Safari web page,
and the device rotates,
and things get crazy,
and it doesn't work.
And that's kind of frustrating.
So, we've taken care of that issue,
and we also make sure that the backlight
is at a certain brightness level,
so that increases the likelihood that
there's going to be a successful scan.
And we also made sure that when you,
you know, the backlight doesn't turn off
right at the moment when you want to
scan and causing the scan to fail.
So, this is really it.
This is the app.
But we've gone beyond this,
and we've tried to integrate
Passbook deeply into the system.
And one of the ways we've done that
is by using lock screen integration.
And this is something that
we can provide that a regular
third-party application can't,
and we think it's where
Passbook really shines.
So, and the beauty of this is that you
as a developer or a merchant can put
your Pass on the lock screen in front
of the user at a time or a location
that's really meaningful for them.
And that's, we think, super powerful.
So, that's another great feature of
Passbook that we think sets it apart.
Now when that happens,
you get this little notification
that's on the screen.
You slide across it,
and the pass slides up,
and it's there ready for you to use.
And you don't even necessarily have
to enter your passcode to access it.
So it's super convenient for the user.
So that's what Passbook
does in a nutshell.
And if you've had the opportunity
to install the latest,
the seed that we've handed
out at the conference,
then hopefully you've got
a chance to look at it.
And what you've probably found is, hey,
there's not a whole lot in here, right?
And that's why you're here today,
so that we can teach you how to put some
content in it and how to make it useful.
So that's what you're going to learn.
We're going to show you
how to create passes,
how to get a pass into Passbook,
and then we're going to give
you some design tips as well
for making great passes,
too.
Now, as I mentioned,
this is Part 1 of a two-part series,
riveting.
And so I want to invite
you to come back to Part 2,
which is going to be
tomorrow in Marina at 4:30.
And Ken and Eliza are going to come back,
and they're going to show you how
to update your passes dynamically
using push notifications.
So another huge feature of Passbook
is that these individual passes can
be targeted by push notifications,
much like your application can.
So we're going to give you
the how-to on getting that to
work and making that happen.
And then we're also going to talk
about PassKit and how you can access
model-level information about your
passes using our Objective-C API.
Okay, so let's get into some of
the nuts and bolts of how you
actually go ahead and make a pass.
And to talk about how to make a pass,
we've been looking a lot at
what's on the front of the pass,
but we haven't really talked
about what's inside of it.
So if you were to crack
open one of these things,
what are you going to find?
Well, what you'll find is that it's
basically a file package.
And it looks a whole lot
like an application bundle
with one distinct difference,
and that is that there's no executable
code inside of this application bundle.
Really,
the meat of it is this pass.json file.
You may look at this and go,
wait a minute, JSON?
Isn't this Apple?
This is a little strange, right?
I mean,
this seems like a perfect application
to throw a plist in there.
I mean, that's what you would usually
expect to see in a bundle.
But what you'll find as we go
through some of these sessions is
you begin to realize that these
passes are usually delivered,
they're usually created
on a server somewhere.
And so we wanted to choose a
technology that would be friendly
to a variety of platforms,
and so we felt that, you know,
this is a good opportunity to do that.
So we decided to use JSON.
And so this is a good opportunity
to choose JSON because a lot of
server people and people who are
used to working on other platforms,
this is a format that's
very familiar to them.
So that's why we chose to use JSON.
So that's the meat of it
is this pass.json file.
And then along with that are icons,
images, and localized strings.
So passes can also be completely
localized in any of the languages
that we support on the platform.
Obviously, it's up to you to bring
your translations,
but we certainly support that.
So once you have all these elements
gathered together in your file package,
then we take that and we
sign it cryptographically,
we zip it up,
and the binary that pops out of
there is what ends up getting
delivered to the users on their
iPhone or their iPod Touch.
Okay, so we talked about,
at a high level,
what makes up this thing.
So how do you go about
building one of these?
So let's take a look at
the steps involved there.
And you can really break it down into
pretty much five simple steps to getting
your content together in your pass.
And the first is to enter
these pass identifiers.
So obviously, passes need to be
distinguishable from one another.
And so we do that with
a couple of identifiers.
And I'll go into what each
one of those are and where you
get them and what they mean.
And then you can choose
a pass style as well.
So we support five different styles,
and we'll take a look at each of those.
Once you've done that,
you can fill out the information
that's visible to the user on the
front and the back of the pass.
And then you can add colors, logos,
and images.
And once you've done that,
that's when you get to add the relevant
times and locations where this pass
will show up in the lock screen.
Very simple.
All right, well, let's talk about what
these pass identifiers are.
And the first one is
this team identifier.
So the team identifier is something
that's issued to you when you
sign up with a developer account
on the provisioning portal.
It's a 10-character
string found on there.
And if you're an iOS developer,
you're probably pretty
familiar with this.
And the reason that we need it is
because we use it to figure out
which passes in the pass library your
application is entitled to access.
So it's not just open season
for everybody to access.
It's not just open season for everybody
to get to everyone else's passes.
There's an entitlement
structure around that.
And this is one of the ways
that we narrow that down.
It looks like this.
The key is just team identifier,
and then you just pop in the
value right in your pass.json.
The next one is a pass type identifier.
So a pass type identifier defines
a category or a class of passes.
And again, you register for one of these
on the developer portal.
And it's one of the things that we
use to figure out how to group passes,
too.
So if you remember from
the demo on Monday,
you saw one of the passes or two of
the passes were grouped together.
And this is one of the mechanisms
that we use to figure out how
passes are alike and whether we
should group them together or not.
And it's just a quick example of
how you would enter one of these.
The next one is a serial number.
Now, the serial number is a unique number
for every pass that you issue.
And it's chosen by you.
It's completely -- it's
pretty much opaque to us.
The only thing we care
about is that it's a string.
And when you take the serial
number and you combine that
with the pass type identifier,
that's how a single instance of a
pass is globally and uniquely defined.
So let me just dig into that a little
bit more and try and make a little bit
more concrete difference between a pass
type identifier and a serial number.
So let's say that I'm traveling with
my family and we're taking a flight
and there's three of us traveling.
Each of us has our own boarding pass.
But we're all flying on Skyport Airways,
so they've issued us our boarding pass.
And the likelihood here is that each
one of our boarding passes is going
to have the same pass type identifier
because it's the same class of boarding
pass comes from Skyport Airways.
Now,
each one of these passes is different,
though.
I mean, they're issued to an individual.
They have a different name on them,
maybe some different
information in the barcode.
And Skyport needs to be able to
identify each of these individually.
So they issue each pass
a distinct serial number,
which I've just made
trivially short here.
The likelihood is that it would
be something more complex,
like a UUIDU, something like that.
Now, Skyport might also have a loyalty
program or a membership program.
And maybe that's operated by a
completely different part of the company.
And they need their own signing cert.
And it's kind of a different
pass from their boarding passes,
right?
So in that case,
they're probably going to have
a different pass-type identifier
that distinguishes that boarding
pass that has its own certificate.
Okay, so that's pass identifiers.
Let's talk next about the different
pass styles that you have.
And so we've got five different ones that
we're currently planning on shipping.
The first is a coupon,
and the coupon has this kind
of perforated edge at the top.
The next one is the store card,
boarding passes, event tickets,
and a generic style as well that
you can use for maybe something
like membership or anything that
we perhaps haven't thought of yet.
of yet.
Now, I want you to notice that
each of these passes has kind
of a distinct edge on them,
right?
They're all recognizable by
the edge that goes around them.
And that's one of the reasons
why it's really important that
when you're making your pass,
you choose the right pass style,
because this is one of the UI elements
that we're using to make passes
recognizable to users in Passbook.
So how do you choose a style?
Well, it's just a matter of choosing or
putting in a top-level key that
points to a dictionary of items.
And in this case,
we want to define a coupon.
So our top-level key is just coupon.
It could have been boarding
pass or store card.
And that points to an array of fields.
All right, so let's take a moment and
talk about what a field is.
So a field, which I've highlighted here,
is the smallest and kind of most
basic element of information that's
visible on the pass that you,
as the pass provider, get to define.
Each Passbook has a key
that uniquely identifies it,
as well as a label.
In this case, the label is San Francisco,
and then a value,
which in this case is SFO.
Every field has a default text alignment,
depending on the pass
style that's chosen.
But you can choose to
override this if you want to.
You can set a different text alignment
if it makes sense for you to,
say,
center justify the label and the value.
And you can also provide dates as well.
And if you do that,
then you can set a date and
a time style on that value.
And we will then format the date
correctly for the locale that
the user is viewing the pass in.
Now, every field is part of a
larger group of fields.
So in this case,
we've got this field which signifies
the gate on the top of the pass.
And that gate field is part
of the header field section.
And there's usually only one of these,
and it appears at the top.
And it's also the only one that's
visible when the pass is in the stack.
Then we have the set of primary fields,
and the location and
size of these fields,
these groups of fields,
varies on a per-style basis.
So in the boarding pass,
this is where the primary fields go.
And the primary fields usually signify
the most visible or the largest pieces of
text that are on the front of the pass,
the most prominent fields.
The next is the secondary fields,
so those of secondary importance.
And then passes have a different
number of optional auxiliary
fields as well that you can define.
And those are always a little bit small,
and you can fit a few more
of them on in the pass.
So here's an example of how
we might define these fields.
So in this case,
we want to set up a boarding pass.
We set a top-level key of
boarding pass that has a set
of information inside of it.
And we'd like to set up this gate
field on the top of our pass.
So it's just a header field array.
And we define the key, the label,
and the value.
And then we also define
this change message as well,
which was up on the slide earlier,
but I didn't talk about it.
So the change message is useful in
the context when the pass is updated.
Now, if your pass is updated
through a push notification or
through our Objective-C API,
then you can signal us to notify
the user that a field changed by
including a change message in the field.
So what we do is we
check the previous pass,
and we check the new pass,
and we take a look at what's changed.
And if anything's different--
if the field has changed and
it has a change message to it,
we will show a banner notification
with your message inside of it saying,
hey, your gate changed.
And so that's just a text
string with a placeholder,
and the placeholder is replaced
by the value of the new field.
All right, so I'm also going to put
in an auxiliary field here.
And the reason I wanted to
show you this was just to show
you how you can define a date.
So here again,
we're defining the departure field.
And we set the value to
a W3C formatted date.
So JSON doesn't really define
a structured date format.
And so we've chosen
to use the W3C format.
And you can tell us how to format
this by using the date and time style.
So in this case, we want this field to
just show a short time.
So we set the date style to
PK date style none and the time
style to PK date style short.
And that will allow us to format
the time in the most brief format
available for the current locale.
Okay, there's one other key that
I wanted to talk to you about,
and it's specific to boarding passes,
and it's the transit-type key.
You may have remembered on
the previous slide there was
a picture of this airplane,
but obviously boarding passes
are useful for more modes of
transportation than just flying,
right?
So you can specify a
couple of different kinds,
and we can draw a train there or a
boat there or whatever you specify.
Okay, so that's fields.
Let's take a moment and talk about what
color options are available to you.
So there are a couple of handles that you
have to control the color on the pass.
And the first and obviously the most
obvious is the background color,
right?
So in this case, we've chosen brown.
We'll take the background color that
you specify and we'll apply a mild
gradient to it and a little shine.
And that's what we then use as
the background color of the pass.
You can also specify
the foreground color.
The default for this
is usually just white,
but you can set it to whatever
works well for the background
color that you've chosen.
And then we'll also take the
background color and try and figure
out a good color for your labels,
too, a color that we think works
well with your background color.
But if you find that you don't
really like the option that's
been chosen for you by default,
you can also override this
by specifying a label color.
Okay, so what other things can
you specify in your pass?
Well, of course,
there's logos and images, too.
So the first is the
logo and the logo text.
Now, mostly in terms of images,
it's just a matter of dropping
an image that's named correctly
into your pass package,
and we will use it accordingly,
depending on how it's named.
So this one is logo.ping,
or logo at 2x.ping,
and it's the coffee cup that's
shown in the top left-hand corner.
In this case, it's just a small,
iconic logo.
And so because of that,
because it doesn't contain
any branding inside of it,
we can also use logo text,
which is specified in
your pass.json file,
and we'll draw some nice text at the top,
depending on what you
tell us to draw up there.
And this is actually the way
that we recommend doing it.
We recommend using an iconic logo.
And then adding --
using the logo text to,
you know,
put the name of the pass or your
company name or what have you.
The next is the background image.
And the background image is kind of
an interesting one because it can be
used in a couple of different ways.
So in this case, on the store card,
we're using it as this strip image that
gets put up on the top half of the pass,
which has kind of a nice effect.
But if this were to be an event ticket,
then it would be treated
a little bit differently.
We would then apply a blur to it and set
it as the background to the whole pass,
which gives us a really cool
event ticket look to it.
And it's pretty neat.
So you can also specify a thumbnail
image as well that we'll use that has
meaning on certain pass styles as well.
In this case,
we've just chosen the clear version
of the same background image.
Okay, so we've talked a lot about
what's on the front of passes.
How about the back?
What's the back all about?
So, on the back of the pass,
at the top of your pass is
usually a settings section,
and you don't have any control over this.
These are settings that we put into
the pass to allow the user to control
the notification settings and whether
your pass is shown on the lock screen.
But below that is a set of pass fields
or back fields that you can provide,
too.
So, right alongside your header
fields and your primary fields,
you can specify back fields.
And this is really useful because
we allow an arbitrary number of back
fields on the back of your pass.
And what will happen is, as you add more,
we'll just add a scroll view so
that you can scroll through them.
This is helpful if you have fields that
are important enough to be on your pass,
but don't necessarily need that
prime placement on the front of it.
Things like terms and conditions,
which may be kind of long.
And so it's a really
useful thing to have.
There's one other thing that I want
to tell you about that you can
insert onto the back of your pass,
and it has to do with your applications.
So it's important to remember
that passes can exist completely
independently of third-party,
of App Store applications,
which we think is an awesome feature.
It means that these can
be distributed around,
they can be given to users,
and they don't necessarily have
to have a third-party application
associated with them to be useful.
However, I mean,
we recognize that this is a great place,
it's a great vector for you to
direct your user at your application,
which may have a bunch of utility
and uses that aren't covered by
Passbook that you could be providing.
So we wanted to give a nice spot to allow
you to send users to your application,
and they'll be able to open your app
directly from the back of their pass
and even download it directly there,
which is super cool.
It's super useful.
And the way that this works is that
you give us an array of numbers,
and this is your Atom ID,
you may be familiar with that,
or your iTunes Store ID.
And we'll take the first one that
matches for the device that you're on,
and we'll show that in a
view on the top of the pass.
Now, you notice I'm not showing it here,
it's because it's not
available yet in Seed 1,
but it will be, this feature will pop up
in a forthcoming Seed.
Okay, so that's Passbacks.
Now let's talk a little
bit about barcodes,
which is basically what we're
trying to dress up here,
right?
So we support three types
of barcodes in Passbook.
We support PDF417, Aztec, and QR.
Now, if you know anything about barcodes,
you probably understand that
these are all 2D formats.
So we don't support 1D
formats in Passbook.
And let me just back up a little
bit and kind of explain to you
what's the difference between a 1D
format and a 2D formatted barcode.
I certainly didn't know before
I started working on this.
So a 1D formatted barcode is the kind
of barcode that you're used to seeing,
like, on your grocery store items or,
you know, on merchandise that you buy.
It's the vertical black stripes,
kind of the zebra stripes, right?
Now, an interesting thing about 1D
barcodes is that... They're usually,
not always,
but usually scanned by technology
involving laser scanners.
It turns out that laser
scanners really don't work too
well on a backlit LCD screen.
So if you use a 2D barcode,
that requires a different kind of
technology to read the barcode.
And what it needs is a
digital imaging device,
which works a little
bit more like a camera.
And it turns out that digital
imaging devices work really
well for scanning LCD screens.
And so we... We wanted to make
sure that we would ensure success
for our users when they go out
there and scan their devices.
And so we only support 2D barcodes
because if you put a 1D barcode on
your pass and then the user goes and
tries to scan it with a laser scanner,
it's not going to work too well.
So 2D barcodes are supported.
PDF 417, Aztec, and QR.
And we think that that covers basically
all the bases for the different 2D
barcode readers that are out there.
To be honest,
most of the ones that... We've looked
at support all of these formats.
But we figure these three formats are
enough to cover pretty much anyone.
So the way it works is that you provide
us the message in the form of a string
that you'd like us to put in the barcode,
and you tell us how you'd
like us to encode it,
and then we draw the barcode.
Now, one interesting little thing is that
you can also provide optional alt
text that goes under the barcode,
and that's shown here.
So some merchants have the requirement
that if they're at the point of
sale and the register goes down,
or the scanning device goes down,
or the scan isn't being successful,
that they have the opportunity to
just punch in the number manually.
And so this is useful for that.
You can use alt text to put in
a message below the barcode,
which may be useful in the
case that it doesn't scan.
And it doesn't have to be the
same as the message that's
encoded in the barcode itself.
All right, so let's take a quick look.
Let's look at an example of how
you create one of these barcodes.
The first thing you do is set
up the top-level barcode key,
and that's got a dictionary
of items inside of it.
You set message encoding.
So in this case, we're using ISO 8859-1,
which is otherwise known as a Latin one.
It turns out that this is a very
common encoding for barcodes,
so chances are you're
probably going to use this.
But obviously,
it's up to you to know what your scanning
infrastructure is like and what kind
of encodings your scanners support.
So let's go ahead and do that.
So you can provide us with a
number of different encodings.
And then you set the message that
you'd like to show in the barcode.
You can provide optional alt text,
and then you tell us the format of
the code that you'd like us to draw,
and we'll draw either PDF 417, ASTEC, QR.
In this case, we're drawing a PDF 417.
OK.
So now I want to take just a quick
moment again to talk about relevancy,
which is, again, what we think is really
interesting about Passbook.
And relevancy allows you to put
your passes on the user's lock
screen at a time or a location
that's meaningful to them.
So how does this work?
Well, as I said,
you can do it via location.
And the way this works is that when
the user wakes up their device,
we do a really inexpensive location
lookup right there and then if
they have passes in their library
that have location information.
And we take a look at the different
passes in their library and look at
whether they have location information.
And we do a matching to try and figure
out if we're within a certain radius
of the locations provided on the pass.
You can provide up to ten coordinates
of interest in your pass.json.
Now, this is a number that we've chosen.
We're really interested in feedback
about what numbers are good for you
and how many we need to support.
But obviously,
we've got a lot of considerations
to balance in terms of power
and performance issues,
right?
So talk to us in the labs about this.
We're really interested in your feedback.
[Transcript missing]
The other way you can make your pass
relevant is by setting a relevant date.
And obviously really good for
time-sensitive applications,
like boarding passes and event tickets.
So you provide a single date
of relevancy in your pass.json.
And once again here,
the window around that time is tied
to the style of pass that you use.
So here's an example of how you
might set a relevant location
and a relevant date on your pass.
In this case, locations key points to
an array of coordinates,
and then a relevant date, which again,
that familiar W3C formatted date.
Okay, so that's how you make your passes
relevant on the user's lock screen.
Again, a really cool feature.
Puts your pass in front of
the user when they need it.
Locations and dates are limited.
They will be limited in some way in terms
of the numbers that you can provide,
but it's really important to
understand that you can update them.
So, come back to session two,
and we'll tell you how to update
your passes with push notifications
and through our PassKit API so that
you can start to really think about
interesting things that you might be
able to do in your app's UI to give
the user some control over that,
or maybe even set those parameters for
them based on intelligence that you
might have about what they're doing
and how they're using their passes,
right?
Okay, so one little word about
localization as well.
Obviously,
passes can be fully localized in any of
the languages that the platform supports,
and this works a whole lot
like app localization works.
So in your pass.json, for example,
you've got a field defined,
and the value is, you know, ohmystars.
You want that translated into French.
You set up a French.lproj
folder inside your file package,
create a pass.strings file,
set that value from your pass.json
as the key in your pass.strings file,
and then your translation for that is
then the value in your pass.strings file.
And we take care of substituting
the right one in to your pass when
it's shown in a particular locale.
Thank you.
All right, so that's the nuts and bolts
of how you create a pass.
It's pretty easy,
but I want to invite Ken up to
come and give you a demo of how
to do it from front to back.
Please welcome him.
Thank you.
So let us suppose,
for the purpose of this demo,
that we all work for Oceanic Airlines.
They somehow got past the five
person limit for the conference.
And we just went to the keynote,
and we're like, this is amazing.
We really need to start doing this,
because what we're doing
right now is terrible,
and we need to fix it.
So if we're in that situation,
and we're super excited,
but what do we start to do?
How do we actually go about
making a pass just from scratch?
Or where do we start?
And the answer for that is
that you should start by
downloading the sample materials,
because you can basically copy
it and change a bunch of stuff.
And that's what we're going to show here.
So if you go and search on
developer.apple.com for the materials
associated with this session,
you'll find the stuff that I'm
going to be working with here.
Or if you're watching the video later,
just go search the
sample code for passbook,
and you should be able to find it.
But so one of the things you're going
to see is you're going to see a pass--
these sample passes we give you.
And if you click in there,
what you're going to see is
basically what we were just
showing you a minute ago,
a bunch of different directories,
which are the blown out contents
of these pass packages that we
were just looking on the board.
And then also, we give the fully zipped
up signed version of that,
which is directly
something that you can--
Put into Passbook a pass.
That is a pass.
The PK Pass is the pass.
So if we're in this situation,
what's the first thing we're going to do?
We need to figure out
which one to start from,
which one to copy and start tweaking.
And let's suppose that we're
not really very bright.
So we don't really know if,
even though we're an airline,
we're not sure if we want a
coupon or a boarding pass.
So we decide to go and
look at them on the phone.
And to do that, what we're going to do is
just grab all these guys,
the PK Passes,
and email them to yourself.
So let's suppose we do that.
Thank you.
So we have this email that now
has showed up on our device,
and it has these five
different passes on it.
And we give you one sample in
each of the different styles.
So, you know, they look pretty much like
Glen was just showing you.
And obviously in our case,
the one that we're really going
to want is the boarding pass.
So we go back.
and we say, all right,
I'm going to take that-- did I get it?
Yep.
I'm going to take that
boarding pass directory.
I'm going to copy it and duplicate it.
So now we have that.
And it has the pass.json.
Then it has a bunch of art.
And then I have to go and I have
to plead with my designer to draw
me some artwork for this pass,
which I have-- which I get.
Or if--whatever.
But then I do notice one
thing that my designer did,
which is that my designer drew a
version of the logo that contains
all of the name of our-- you know,
all of Oceanic Airlines,
whereas the boarding pass that
was here didn't have that.
The logo just had just this
fin from the plane on it.
So we're going to have to sort
of account for that difference
when we are doing our pass.
Let's just go ahead and rename
it so we don't get confused.
And also 'cause I have a script
that's looking for that name.
First,
let's go ahead and change out that art.
So we drop in the art.
Okay, looking better already.
And then we go to change this pass.json
file that we were just talking about.
It looks like this.
Just a big JSON file.
And we need to make this into ours.
So we're just going to do sort of
the least amount that we can here.
I'm going to change the
pass type identifier.
We'll be talking a little
bit more about these later,
but again,
this is sort of like the class.
All boarding passes that Oceanic
puts out are going to have
the same pass type identifier.
They'll all have
different serial numbers,
but we'll leave that out.
So we'll leave that for now.
Let's see.
We are not Oceanic Airways.
Sorry, we are Oceanic Airways.
So let's change that.
And the reason I'm fiddling with
this is because this is where the
text came from that we see in mail.
I'll show you again.
So that would be wrong
if I didn't change it.
This logo text is the additional
text that goes next to the logo,
and we don't want any because our
logo is already built into the art.
So we remove that.
We have different colors
from our designer.
He wanted white foreground.
So we're going to go ahead and do that.
And we're going to go ahead and do that.
We have different colors
from our designer.
He wanted white foreground.
So we're going to go ahead and do that.
We have different colors
from our designer.
He wanted white foreground.
And we need some kind
of background color.
So we went with 42, 4, 8, 15, and 4.
Let's do that.
And that's pretty good.
But just to give an example
of something else changing,
let's say we wanted to add a field.
So in our secondary fields right now,
we just have a passenger.
So let's just copy that.
And we'll make a boarding group.
Change the key because
these have to be unique.
So we went with 42, 4, 8, 15, and 4.
Let's just copy that.
And we'll make a boarding group.
Change the key because
these have to be unique.
and we'll say that our
boarding group is Premier.
I don't actually know if that
makes sense as a boarding group,
but we'll just go with it.
And let's just say that
to make it look nice,
we looked at it on the
device and we found,
actually, you know what?
We really want the text
to be right-aligned here.
Which we do like that.
OK.
So now we are pretty much done,
at least if we're willing to make
very small changes like this.
So we need to sign it and zip
it up before we can actually
look at it on the device.
But that seems a little bit boring.
So instead I'm going to
hit this do magic command.
And now we have done magic.
So now we have a fully
zipped and signed pass.
And I promise to you that before the
end of this talk we'll explain what
that command is and we'll go look at it.
But this is now--
In fact, if I just copy this and change
its extension to .zip so that the
finder thinks it's a zip file,
We can see if we blow that out,
it is indeed what we just made
with a couple extra files,
which we'll be talking about.
Okay, so get rid of that again,
and we grab this and email it to
ourselves without noise this time.
And we go back to our inbox,
and it looks like that.
So we seem to have succeeded.
Yay.
So now there's one more thing
I want to talk about before
I turn it over to Glen for now,
though I'll be coming back later,
and that's a little bit of debugging.
So let's say that we
screwed something up,
okay?
We're just editing this JSON file,
and it just seems the possibilities for
messing something up seem quite large.
So let's say we screwed
up something pretty dumb,
which is that we typed serial number
instead of the proper spelling.
Damn you homophones.
So then we did this again.
We zipped it back up and got the file.
And emailed it to ourselves.
And what is going to happen?
So, uh...
What we're going to see is that
when we try to look at that,
it's just going to look like
a generic attachment in mail
instead of looking correct.
And then when we go back
to Xcode to debug this,
how do we figure out what was wrong?
Well,
if we look at the organizer and we look
at the console for the device-- Oh.
That's good, but it's in there somewhere.
Just a second.
There we go.
Okay.
Then we get this error message
which says that we are missing a
required key from that dictionary,
which is the serial number.
Okay?
It's not going to complain about
the fact that there was some
key it didn't recognize in there
because for future compatibility,
maybe we will be adding keys.
But it says there was a required
thing that wasn't in there.
So this is your tip-off.
So basically,
while you're trying to do this,
you should go look at the Xcode organizer
and look at the console whenever things
don't seem to be working right because
we log a lot of useful information.
Maybe the last thing to note,
since it's along that line,
is about testing.
How should you test?
You should, at least before you ship,
you always have to test on the device.
Put it on the device.
Show it.
Generally, if you're making a pass,
you are also in charge
of the other end of it,
the scanning.
Go get a real scanner of yours and make
sure it works because different scanners,
it should be fine,
but it's like not doing this is like
trying to write a web page and never
actually looking at it in a browser.
It's just not well advised.
So, so that's it.
So with that,
I will turn it back over to Glenn to
talk about some of the stuff we skipped.
All right, thanks, Ken.
So we talked about how
to create your passes.
Ken showed you how to do that.
But he also talked about some
magic stuff that was happening,
right?
And so let's -- we've talked
about the contents of your passes.
talked about pass.json, localizations,
icons, images.
But we've kind of glossed
over this manifest.json and
signature stuff at the bottom,
right?
And this is really how we
cryptographically sign your pass.
And so we're going to go into that
just a little bit in this session.
So how do you deploy your passes?
Well, you deploy your passes
by visiting the portal,
and the first thing you need to do
is set up a new pass type identifier.
And once you've done that,
that'll enable you to get the certificate
that you need to actually create
your pass and sign it correctly.
You sign and zip it up,
your pass package, to create the pass,
and then what pops out of
that is the binary that you
then deploy to your users.
So if you've been poking around the
developer portal in the last couple days,
you've probably noticed
this new section here.
It's the Pass Type ID section.
And this is where you go to visit to
set up your new pass type identifier.
So you provide us with a
description and an identifier.
And the only constraint is that
it has to begin with pass dot.
The rest of the identifier
is kind of up to you,
but obviously it has
to be globally unique.
So we recommend using reverse DNS just
because that reduces the chances that
you're going to have a name collision.
Once you've got that,
then it's time to sign your pass.
So there's a recipe to doing this,
and Eliza's going to talk about
it a little bit in Part 2.
But what we decided to do, as Ken said,
is give you some sample code
in the session notes to allow
you to do this really quickly,
because today's session is all
about how you create passes,
right?
And so we don't want you to have
to worry about this too much.
So use the Sign Pass tool in
the included session resources.
But again, understand that when
you deploy these things,
the chances are, because they're signed,
they're going to be generated
on a server somewhere usually.
And so you're probably going to need
to roll your own implementation of
this signing and zipping recipe.
But not to worry,
we've provided you in source form
the source of the Sign Pass tool.
But in addition,
we've also given you a reference
implementation that's in
Ruby that does it as well.
So once you've created and signed
and you've got your PK Pass file,
well, how do you get it to your users?
There's three ways that you do this.
The first is one that
you've seen already.
You can send it as a mail attachment.
So if you send it as a mail attachment,
if you're on iOS 6 and you're in mail,
it'll recognize that
this is a PK Pass file,
and it'll show you that UI that you
saw earlier and give you that ingestion
experience where you can tap on it and
elect to add it to your pass library.
The other way that you can do
it is by sending your users a
URL or having them navigate in
your web page to a particular URL.
And the way that this works is that as
long as you respond to the URL request
with this particular MIME type,
then Safari will recognize that and
again present that same pass-adding UI.
Lastly,
you can use PassKit to do this using
our Objective-C API in your application.
And again,
it's a really simple -- it's just a
matter of presenting a view controller,
and it will, again,
present this opportunity for the user to
add your pass to their PassKit library.
All right,
so I'm going to bring Ken back up one
more time to just show you a few more
of the details of the magic stuff.
Thank you, Glen.
Okay, so now we're going to go into
what was going on when we
were trying to sign this pass.
As Glen was saying,
another item that's in the materials
that we're giving in the sample
is this project called SignPass.
and it serves two purposes.
One is as a reference when you're trying
to go implement the algorithm yourself,
because you might have to do that because
you're not in an Objective-C environment,
like a server.
Or when you're in the kind of situation
that we're pretending we are now,
we just want to see a pass,
you can also just use it and just run it.
And in fact, you can just run it yourself
on your server if you happen
to have a MacOSX server.
It's just not super likely.
So if I just hit Command-R,
so that's just running
it with no arguments,
which produces this usage message.
And it says signpass-p
is a path to the pass,
and then some other stuff that
we're going to ignore for now.
Though you can look
through the source code,
of course, if you want to see what it is.
OK, so having built that,
now I'm in a position to be able to
show you what this do magic command was.
It was not much.
All it did was invoke signpass-p,
and then the path to--
to the unsigned package,
to the contents of the package.
OK,
now why wasn't there even a cert there?
Well, there's a cert because
it's in my keychain.
So let me show you how that works.
We're going to go get a cert.
So this is all documented,
and it's described both in documentation
and in the text on the portal.
But because it kind of bounces
around between different places,
we thought it would be nice to just sort
of walk you through getting a profile.
So-- take note of what time it
is if you want to be able to go
back and look at this part later.
So we will go into the portal.
We go into the iOS provisioning portal.
We grab pass type identifiers,
pass type IDs.
And then from here,
we say we want to make
a new pass type ID.
OK, we'll call it boarding pass.
This is not important.
It's just a description in the UI.
And we're making
pass.com.oceanic.boardingpass.
OK.
And we go ahead and do that.
Now we're to this stage.
We've now created the pass type ID,
but there aren't any certs
associated with it yet.
So tap Configure.
Configure again.
Now it's saying to launch Keychain,
so I'm just going to do that.
I'm going to select certificates first.
Request a certificate from
a certificate authority.
Save to disk.
Now it's a desktop.
So at that point,
we have now saved that out to disk,
and this is what this text is
telling us to do in the portal.
Hit continue.
Choose the file that you just created.
Generate.
And
Now it's actually making the cert.
And the reason why it's bouncing
back and forth like this is to avoid
exposing the private key to Apple,
which makes it a little bit funny,
of course,
when you have to go between applications.
Anyway,
so we eventually download that guy.
And we just double click it,
and that will add it to Keychain.
The way this sign pass tool
works is that it looks at your
pass that you're trying to sign.
It grabs that dictionary and gets
the pass type identifier out of it.
And then it has this
integration with Keychain.
It runs through the
certificates in Keychain,
looking for one that has a name that
matches that pass type identifier.
And that's all it does.
And then it uses that to sign it.
So when we click that Do Magic--
let me get rid of this and we can
just look at it-- it just sort of
spits out the information about what
files it stuck into the signature,
basically.
Stuck into the manifest, really.
But that's what it was dealing with.
And so that's pretty much it.
Oh, there was one more
thing I did want to say,
which is that because of the
way the sign pass tool works
using your pass type identifier,
if you go to just directly sign
these passes that we gave to you,
they won't succeed in signing,
because you don't have a cert
for this pass type identifier.
You know, this pass type identifier
is skyport.boardingpass.
And you're not going
to be able to get that.
So in order to be able
to use the sample passes,
you always have to change this
to your actual identifier that
you registered on the portal.
Anyway, with that said,
that is all I wanted to go through.
So I will give it back
to Glenn to finish up.
All right, thanks again, Ken.
Okay,
so we've given you the tools that you
need to create passes from front to back.
We've talked about what's
inside of all of these things.
But now we want to give you some
design tips for creating great passes.
Now, you know, Passbook is a super simple
application in terms of,
you know, the UI that's presented to you.
It's filled with your content.
So it has a very clean and
simple design aesthetic,
but it does have a design aesthetic.
So we want to give you some tips for
how to fit into that and be successful
in creating passes that look great,
make Passbook look great, and, you know,
delight your users, right?
So, you know,
Passbook is a super simple application.
So the first thing I want to
let you know is that we've
done a lot of experimentation.
We designed a lot of passes.
We did a lot of stuff.
And what we found is that vibrant,
solid colors really work best.
So use those.
And, you know, this just really makes the
cards pop and look really nice.
The other thing is that, again,
I want to encourage you to make sure
you're using the correct pass style.
So, you know,
one of the few sort of UI elements
that's... So part of Passbook is
this...the edges that the passes have.
And so that's a recognizable
way for users to understand what
they're looking at very quickly.
So make sure that you're using the
right pass style for your application.
Next, in terms of logos,
if you're taking our advice
and you're using these nice,
vibrant, solid colors,
then chances are that a solid white
logo is going to look pretty good.
And, in fact, those tend to work best,
right?
So if your company or your brand has
a monochromatic version of your logo,
which a lot of brands do for
newspapers or what have you,
then we encourage you to use
that monochromatic version
in white against a nice,
solid background.
It just looks good.
Now, obviously,
there are always exceptions to the rules,
but these are just tips that
we've discovered along the way.
[Transcript missing]
Okay, so, and in terms of layout,
you know, again, it's a very simple,
clean aesthetic,
and we just want to encourage you to
avoid the temptation to just cram as much
information in these passes as you can.
Be very selective about the
kinds of information and the
pieces of information that you're
putting in the front of your pass.
Only select the most important
things and only the things
that really need to go there.
And remember that you have the
backfields array as a tool as well to
put information in your pass that maybe
doesn't need that prime placement,
right?
Remember that users are
using this on the go,
and they're glancing down,
and so you want to
communicate to them quickly,
you know, what the most important
pieces of information are.
The next thing I just want to
mention is that you really need
to keep your passes accessible.
And I almost hesitate
to even talk about this,
but I'm going to anyway.
Don't bake semantic information into
your background images or your passes.
One of the things that we could have done
was just give you a big old canvas that
we animate around on and you paint on.
But it's not useful in a lot of ways.
We can't do interesting things with
your data if we don't have it as data,
if all we have is pixels.
And one of the very useful things
that we can't do is we can't
make your cards very accessible.
So that's why we've defined this format.
That's why we've done it this way.
That's why we've sort of created
these rails for you to be on.
And so, you know,
avoid the temptation to just, like,
bake super important information right
into the artwork that's on your pass.
The next thing is to use
header fields sparingly.
I mean, you'll notice in our sample deck,
like,
we don't even really use it that much.
You only want to use this if you have
a super important piece of information
that you need to communicate to the user
that needs to show up in the Passbook.
And the stack view, right?
So, like, you know, the gate is, like,
that's pretty important, right?
But you don't want to just
use it because it's there.
Only use it if you really have a
purpose for putting something up there.
Next is that different businesses
have different requirements,
and a lot of people are
already in this barcode game,
and they've settled on a format,
and that's great, that's fine.
We've selected a variety
of formats to support,
but we just want to tip you off that
if you're starting from scratch and
it doesn't make a difference to you,
one thing to note is that if you
use a square-oriented barcode,
it's going to eat into your
vertical space quite a bit.
So what we have to do is we have
to scrunch down those fields
that are on the top of the pass,
and it makes them a little bit smaller.
So if it makes no difference to you,
you might want to consider trying
a landscape-oriented barcode,
because it'll give you a
little bit more vertical room,
give you a little bit
more space on the page,
and let things kind of
breathe a little bit more.
Okay,
so if there's one thing that you can
take away from this section of the talk,
it's keep it simple.
Really keep it simple.
Don't avoid the temptation to
overload your users with information
on the front of your passes.
And one other thing that
I just want to mention is that,
you know,
a lot of these passes already have
analogs in the physical world already,
right?
There are boarding passes out there,
there are event tickets,
they're usually printed
on a white piece of paper.
And avoid the temptation to, you know,
take your physical thing that
already exists and just do a
one-to-one copy and be like,
okay, you know,
I'm going to take this and
just put it into Passbook and
that's going to be my pass,
right?
It's kind of boring.
We want Passbook to be fun, usable,
and we want it to, you know,
the user to be excited about going there,
and it's got all these fun animations.
So, you know,
take the opportunity to design.
Design something to communicate your
brand by designing instead of just
copying something that's already there,
right?
And essentially making a Passbook
full of boring white passes.
So keep it simple, be creative,
and if you do that,
if you do those things,
you'll get fantastic results.
And, you know,
just here are some examples of
really simple passes that look
awesome but are super simple.
And if you follow these principles,
then you'll get results like this,
and you'll make Passbook.
fun to use for people,
which is really important to us.
Okay,
so that's all I have to say about design.
For more information, contact Paul.
He's our application services evangelist.
Check out the docs.
Check out the developer forums.
And thanks for coming.
I really appreciate your attention.
Go out there.
Make awesome passes for Passbook.
Thanks.